substituted course since the student has utilized the opportunity of clearing a course in first attempt.
If a student receives an ‘F’ grade in a OE course, and if the student wishes, he/she is permitted to 
take another OE course instead of the OE course the student had failed to clear, in a subsequent 
semester and clear the new course. Further, the student is also permitted to choose a DE course 
from his/her curriculum, instead of the OE course that the student had failed to clear. However, the 
student has to pay for the substituted course since the student has utilized the opportunity of 
clearing a course in first attempt. Such course substitution option can be exercised for any number 
of time, either for a DE or OE, for entire duration of the programme. Course Substitution is not 
permitted for FC or DC or DLEC courses. 
15. Grade Improvement
Students who wish to improve their grades will be permitted to register the same course again during 
a subsequent Course Registration. This course will be treated as another course taken by the student 
and no relaxation in the maximum number of credits a student can register during a semester, as 
indicated in Section 7.3. However, the student has to pay extra for registering the course again. Such 
an option can be availed only once for a given course and only one course can be registered for 
course improvement per semester. Students at their graduating year or timed out students are 
permitted to register more than one ‘Grade Improvement’ courses, in order to improve their CGPA 
which may help them during their placement. Such a course should be indicated as ‘Grade 
Improvement’ course during the Course Registration.
16. Credit Transfer
Within the University, when a student move from one programme to another at the end of the first 
year through programme migration option, Credit Transfer is a convenient way of transferring the 
courses and credits the student had successfully completed/ earned. A separate circular will be 
issued by the Dean Academics regarding programme migration guidelines and norms at the 
appropriate time. If the courses completed have the same syllabi and credits, and if the course(s)/
its equivalent(s) appear in the programme curriculum into which the student is now admitted, it is 
assumed that the student has earned the credits by credit transfer. Only such courses and credits 
that are completed and performance grades awarded will be transferred. Since the credit transfer 
takes place within the same University, the performance grades will also be transferred to their 
current curriculum and hence will be counted towards their GPA/ CGPA. Therefore, there will be no 
need to mention explicitly ‘Credit Transfer’ in their Consolidated Grade Sheet. Even though 
programme migration option is provided at the end of first year study period, it is not binding on the 
University to offer this option every year.
A similar procedure shall be adopted during the time of admission of candidates from other 
Universities into various eligible programmes of the University, subject to the condition that those 
Universities are recognized and approved for credit transfer by VIT University. During that time, only 
those courses that were completed and credits earned will be mapped to the courses demanded by 
the programme curriculum into which the admission is sought and hence considered for credit 
transfer. If the system adopted in the other University is different from that of VIT, then the 
programme School into which the student is seeking admission/ transfer may work out an 
