3rd Review (Final) 50% To be scheduled during the FAT 
period as Viva Voce 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
12
examination by the Project 
Monitoring Committee. Of the 
50% weightage, 25% goes to 
project report evaluation by the 
Guide, and 25% goes to the 
Viva voce examination 
conducted by the External 
Examiner.
SET Conference:
Science, Engineering and Technology (SET) Conference will be organised during the last week of
every semester by any one of the Schools. Study Oriented Project and Design Project are included 
in the curriculum of 2 year M. Tech. Programmes and MCA Programme under “Project and Internship”. 
Study Oriented Project and Research Project are included in the curriculum of 2 year M. Sc. 
Programmes under “Project and Internship”. It is compulsory for all PG students to publish their
project results in the form of a paper presented during the SET Conference of that semester. The 
students shall carry out the Study Oriented Project and Design / Research Project in each of their first
and second Semesters. 
6.3.8. Additional learning:
In order to make student learning capabilities more meaningful and activity oriented, programmes
like Hack-a-thons, Make-a-thons and other similar activities are conducted on campus. In order to
integrate this in academics, additional marks can be awarded to the student by the faculty after
due assessment of the performance of the student. The student can get benefitted by such
additional marks, to a maximum of 20, which can be added to the CAM scored for one course
per semester. Allotment of such additional marks is subject to conditions that (1) the activity
should have been scheduled for atleast 24 continuous hours, (2) monitored by the faculty who
is offering the course related to the activity, (3) the team size should not be more than three and
(4) the assessment done in one semester cannot be used / forwarded to the subsequent semesters.
The allotment of the marks may vary from 5 (just participation) – 20 (prize winner) depending on
the involvement and output of the student in the event as per the details given below. The faculty 
handling the course will award the marks based on the performance of the student. If a student 
wishes to do a project in courses and resulted with tangible output can also be considered for 
additional marks.

Participation throughout the event and active 
involvement 
5 Marks
