all weeks of the semester, shall also be considered as one Instructional Unit or one Credit. Thus, the 
LTPC for each course indicates the number of credits delivered as Lecture (L), Tutorial (T), Practical 
(P) and the total instructional delivery indicated as Credits (C).
Example:
An LTPC of 2-1-2-4 means 2 instructional units based on class room lecture (L), one instructional unit 
of tutorial (T), one laboratory (P) based instructional unit (of 100 minutes) - all delivered during a 
calendar week, and repeated for the entire duration of the semester to earn four credit (C) after 
passing the course.
6.2 Minimum Credit Requirement
The minimum credit requirement for the completion of a programme for students admitted is clearly 
specified in the programme curriculum. Further, the student has to meet the course and credit 
distribution under various heads as specified under 4.2, as specified in the curriculum to become 
eligible for the degree. Due to various features of FFCS, it is possible for a student to attain the 
minimum credit requirement without completing all requisite courses/credits under individual heads 
like Foundation Core (FC) , Discipline Linked Engineering Courses (DLE) , Discipline Core (DC) , Discipline 
Elective (DE) / Specialization Elective (SE) , Open Elective (OE), Skill Enhancement Courses (SEC), Ability 
Enhancement Courses (AEC) and Project and Internship as defined in their curriculum. Under such 
circumstances, though the student has attained the minimum credits, it is mandatory for the student 
to complete all courses under FC, DLE and DC and also to meet the credit requirements under OE / DE 
/ SE / SEC / AEC and other heads as per Section 4.2. to become eligible for the degree.
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
8 
6.3 Course Distribution 
The curriculum of each programme consists of courses that are grouped into Foundation Core, 
Discipline Linked Engineering Courses, Discipline Core, Discipline Elective/ Specialization Elective, 
Open Elective, Skill Enhancement Courses, Ability Enhancement Courses, Value Added Courses, 
English Language Courses, Foreign Language Courses, Major Courses, Minor Courses, Compulsory 
Courses, Compulsory Clinical Courses, Optional Courses, Honours Courses, and Project and 
Internship.
6.3.1 Foundation Core (FC)
Courses listed under FC are foundational courses mandatory to that programme. These courses are 
basic in nature and are expected to enhance student’s knowledge in various disciplines apart from 
his/her own discipline. FC courses may be added, removed or modified from time to time by the 
Academic Council. In few cases, a minimum credit requirement may be fixed to be met by taking one 
or more courses offered in a basket.
Example: FC specifies that each student should take a foreign language course(s) and Humanities,
Science and Management (HSM) Electives. This can be met by taking any course offered from a 
basket of foreign language courses and basket of HSM Electives. 
6.3.2 Discipline Core (DC)
Courses listed under DC of a curriculum are mandatory to the specific programme. Students have to 
