a Consolidated Grade Sheet. A Consolidated Grade Sheet will be issued to a student upon his/her 
successful completion of the programme or along with the Degree Certificate. Consolidated Grade 
Sheet will indicate only the CGPA, and not semester wise GPA. Since a Consolidated Grade Sheet 
consolidates semester Grade Sheet details, all details recorded in the semester Grade Sheets will also 
be listed, with a time stamp of the exam month and year. Additional courses like Audit, Minor/ 
Honours courses etc. earned by the student will also be shown separately/ along with other courses. 
An Interim Consolidated Grade Sheet can also be obtained at the end of any semester, if needed. 
Students registering course(s) that is not a ‘required course’ as per his/her programme curriculum 
(after considering the DE, OE, Audit, Minor, Honours and Double Major requirements, if possible) 
will be shown as additional courses. However, the grade awarded for such course(s) will be 
considered for the semester GPA calculation like any ‘required’ course. On completion of the 
programme, a suitable grade will be awarded and the CGPA will be calculated accordingly at the time 
of issue of the Consolidated Grade Sheet. However, the student needs to pay the course registration
charges for the course(s) as per the prevailing charges at the end of the programme. 
Programme wise rank list will be prepared based on CGPA only. In case of a tie in the CGPA, same 
rank will be awarded to all in tie. Subsequent students will be ranked by skipping the number of 
students awarded the same rank (e.g): While deciding the 5th rank, if two students have the same 
CGPA, both will get 5th rank and the next rank will commence from 7.
9.13 Academic Malpractice
Academic malpractice shall be viewed seriously and punished appropriately in order to discourage 
students from indulging in such activities. Each case shall be enquired by a ‘Malpractice Committee’ 
constituted by the University and suitable punishment will be given, if the malpractice is proven. If a 
student indulges in malpractice in any component of the Continuous Assessment (like CATs), zero 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
30
Marks will be given in all subjects registered in that semester, for the corresponding examination. If 
a student indulges in malpractice in the FAT, all the regular courses in which the student was eligible 
to write and attended the FAT of that semester registered and attended shall be awarded ‘N’ grade, 
as a punishment. However, the students will be permitted to clear those courses in subsequent 
semesters (as and when it is offered) by re-registration.
9.14 Promotion 
All students are promoted to their next semester or year of their programme automatically, 
irrespective of the academic performance. However, at any stage of his/her study, if a student 
reaches a CGPA below 4.00, the student will be permitted to register for a maximum of 16 credits in 
subsequent semesters, until his CGPA crosses 4.00. However, he/she has the choice of registering 
for new courses / courses for which he has obtained ‘F’ grade.
10. Audit
A student willing to get an exposure of a specific course not listed in his/her programme curriculum, 
and without undergoing the rigors of getting a ‘good’ grade, may be permitted to register that course 
as an Audit course, subject to the following conditions.
