Academic Regulations
Version 4.0
1. Preamble
Present day student is much different from the students of the past in many ways. Students like to
make decisions on their own and like to plan their future by themselves. However, student
aspirations on one hand and the demands of the work place on the other have become highly
diverse. Employers expect students to have multi-disciplinary competency, leadership skills, and be
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) ready and skilled in artificial intelligence.
As part of continuous improvement in providing quality education, during 2008, VIT University has 
introduced the Fully Flexible Credit System (FFCS™) into its academic curriculum. By this, the students 
can register courses of their choice and alter the pace of learning within the broad framework of 
academic course and credit requirements. FFCS allows students to decide their academic plan and 
permits students to alter it as they progress in time.
Another milestone in implementing FFCS is moving from a fixed time table to a slot based timetable. 
Under this, a student will be able to choose the time he/she wants to attend a theory class/ lab. Thus, 
combining FFCS with a slot based timetable, students can make their own time table and student in 
a class may have a different timetable of his/her own. In order to make the learning more effective, 
the students apply the course principles by using analytical and critical thinking and thus have an 
opportunity to carry out challenging project(s) as part of the curriculum.
Students also have the option of choosing courses from a ‘basket of courses’ within each 
classification. Ample options are given to choose interdisciplinary courses from other programmes 
which will help the student to develop additional skills. Slow learners will also be benefitted since 
important courses are offered in both semesters. This arrangement helps the students to re-register 
the course and clear the backlog in the subsequent semester. Suitable provisions are included to 
reward academically sound students and to carry out research activities even in their UG Programme.
FFCS offers not only wide choice for students to build their own curriculum, but also enhances their 
skill in planning. A Proctor / faculty advisor helps the student in identifying the courses to be studied 
in each semester based on programme requirement, course prerequisites, student’s academic ability 
and interest in various disciplines, past academic history, proposed course offerings and other 
related criteria.
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
2 
All courses are made student-centric instead of teacher-centric. Learning becomes more 
‘experiential’ by carrying out projects as part of the curriculum. ‘Learning by doing’ enhances 
understanding the concepts discussed in the class and make multi- and cross- disciplinary 
applications possible. Students will be able to take up real world problems as their course projects 
and apply their key learning in identifying better solutions. All courses were designed to bring out 
the importance of application to engineering/technological problems, creativity and innovation, 
developing entrepreneurial skills, rather than rote learning. 
2. Scope
