Tangible output / result producers 10 Marks
Considerable amount of creative input in the 
outcome
15 Marks
Prize / award winners of the event 20 Marks
Mere performance of routine experiments should not be considered for additional marks. In any 
case, prior approval from the faculty handling the course and the School Dean is essential for the 
inclusion of additional marks for such categories. These additional learning is course specific. It is 
the responsibility of the School to make sure that additional marks are allotted to only one course 
for a specified activity. The total internal marks (including the additional marks) is given a upper limit 
of 60 (40 being the marks given to final assessment). Attending “online Courses”, Workshops / 
Seminars organized by any institute are not to be considered for additional marks.
7. Course Registration 
It is mandatory for all students to register for courses that he/she is going to study in the semester 
through a Course Registration process. The Course Registration will be carried out on specific day(s) 
as declared by the University. Students having any outstanding dues to the University will be 
permitted to register for the courses, but will not permit to attend the classes till they pay the fees. 
For valid reasons, late registration for a maximum of 10 calendar days from the commencement of 
the semester may be permitted only with the approval of the School Dean concerned and on 
payment of a late Registration fee as specified by the University. If a student fails to register the 
minimal number of courses in any semester, his/her studentship with the University is liable to be 
cancelled. 
Generally, students will be offered more courses than what a normal student is expected to take. 
Depending on the requirements or from a ‘wish list’ collected from students, Schools decide the 
courses to be offered in each semester. Students shall register courses offered in each semester and 
clear them, subject to various conditions as prescribed in this Regulation. The list of courses offered 
by each programme will be announced prior to the registration. Depending on academic and nonacademic resources available to each programme, courses offered may vary. Students will get a 
chance to make their own plan of study by changing the pace with which they study (fast/slow). Since 
slot timetable is adopted, students can choose their own slots from multiple slots offered for the 
same course.
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
14
7.1 Proctor (Assistance)
Upon joining the University, each student will be assigned a Proctor by the School concerned. The 
Proctor will discuss with the student on his/her academic performance in previous semester(s) and 
suggest the number and nature of courses to be registered in the ensuing semester, within the 
framework of that programme curriculum. The feature “Student Curriculum” is present in the 
academic portal. If the Proctor enters the register number of a student, it is possible to view his/her 
curriculum applicable to that year (latest version). In addition, the student’s final grades obtained in 
various courses will also be displayed. This would help the Proctor to guide students to register 
