level courses.
12. UG Research Experience 
To provide an opportunity to students who are ambitious in pursuing a career in research, few 
project type courses are included in the curriculum which results in Undergraduate Research
Experience (URE). Such courses are named as Technical Answers for Real Problems (TARP), Design 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
32
Project, Laboratory Project, Product Development Project, Reading Course, Special Project, Simulation 
Project. Each of these project types courses carry 3 credits and the credits earned will be considered 
under DE / OE category as per the curriculum requirement. All these project type courses are
independent of each other. The student can register for one course at a time and after successful 
completion, he / she can proceed with the next course if interested. The description for each course, 
the assessment mode and the expected outcome are provided in the syllabus page.
13. Additional Credentials
Opportunities exist for students to complement and enhance their learning experience by crediting 
additional courses in diverse areas. Students who are academically sound can devote their extra time 
in each semester by taking additional course load right from their 3rd semester.
13.1 ‘Minor’ credential
Additional credits acquired in focused discipline other than his/her major programme discipline 
entitles a student to get a ‘Minor’ credential. All Schools offering various programmes will offer 
‘Minors’ in their disciplines, and will prescribe what set of courses and/or projects is necessary for 
earning a minor in that discipline. Such courses can be across the programmes also. Schools should 
ensure that the student will not be indirectly forced to take courses other than the ones prescribed 
under that ‘minor’ list as ‘pre-requisite’ courses. Students who wish to acquire a ‘Minor’ can register 
‘minor’ courses along with their regular semester course registration. If any of the courses listed 
under the ‘minor’ option is a course listed under his/her curriculum as UC/PC, then the student 
cannot opt for that ‘minor’, since all minor courses need to be earned as additional courses to his/her 
programme curriculum. He/she accumulates credits by registering for the required courses, and if 
the course requirements for a particular ‘Minor’ are met within the prescribed minimum time limit 
of the programme, the minor will be awarded along with the degree. Also, the student should have 
a minimum average CGPA of 7.50 in the ‘Minor’ courses registered to become eligible for the Minor. 
It will reflect in the Degree Certificate as “Bachelor of Technology in (Programme) with Minor in 
(specialization).” Ex.: B.Tech in Civil Engineering with Minor in Data Science. This fact will also be 
reflected in the Consolidated Grade Sheet under a separate heading ‘Minor in (specialization)’ with 
similar details shown for registration. In case a student withdraws from the “Minor” in the middle of 
the programme, the ‘Minor’ courses successfully completed will be converted to ‘Audit’ courses and 
indicated accordingly in subsequent Grade Sheets and Consolidated Grade Sheet. If necessary, the 
student may use options like registering the failed ‘Minor’ course again in a subsequent semester 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
33
