internship course in a subsequent semester for evaluation by the School. Based on entries made in 
the activity log, the industrial internship report and performance of the student during the related 
viva voce, marks may be awarded which shall lead to a performance grade.
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
10
Project / Internship: 
Students are expected to carry out an innovative project work during their final semester of study 
for the credits prescribed under Project and Internship of their curriculum. This work may be related 
to the specialization of the programme the student undergoes, by applying the knowledge they have 
gained in the courses/ labs they have undergone as on that date. Through the project work, students 
are expected to prove their analytical, design, fabrication ability and presentation skills. Depending 
on the nature of the project work, an individual student or a group of students may carry out the 
project within the University or outside, viz. in an industry, private/ government organization, or 
academic/ research institution. Each student will be assigned a faculty member as guide within their 
School. In suitable cases, with the permission of HoD, the student may opt for a guide outside their 
School also. In case of projects outside the University, there will be an external guide within the 
industry/ organization of work and an internal guide within the School to which the student belongs 
to. In case of group project, the individual project report of each student in that group shall have 
different project title to bring out the individual’s contribution to the group project. Submitting a 
project that was bought (purchased)/ borrowed/ submitted in “VIT” or another University/ 
Institution shall be considered as examination malpractice and will be awarded an ‘N’ grade and the 
student has to register again and clear the student project in a subsequent semester. Failure or 
absence in the final viva-voce examination results in re-registration of the project. Though group 
project is permitted at undergraduate level programmes, students of post graduate programme are 
expected to carry out individual projects independently. Wherever needed, periodic reviews can be 
conducted through video - conferencing. However, final viva voce examination will be conducted in 
person only.
Students are expected to decide on the specific project area and title, and carry out substantial 
portion of the literature survey during the end of their pre-final semester. After the end of their prefinal semester FATs, the student need to make a presentation to the “Student Project Monitoring 
Committee” constituted by Schools concerned. The Project Work may be a work based on theoretical 
analysis, modeling & simulation, experimentation & analysis, prototype design, fabrication of new 
equipment and analysis of data, etc. or a combination of these. Various time limits specified for 
monitoring and evaluation of performance of the student should be strictly followed (Table 1). The 
final project report will be evaluated by a panel of examiners consisting of HoD as Chairman of the 
Committee, External Examiner, one Internal Expert, Guide and Co- guide (wherever applicable) and 
an oral examination will be conducted. A minimum of three and a maximum of five members 
Committee will be nominated by the Dean of the programme School the student belongs to.
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
11
Projects can be connecting to domain specific issues under the guidance of a faculty. They can also 
