will be open to students for three instructional days. Withdrawal below 16 credits is, generally, not 
permitted. However, final years and timed-out students are exempted from the minimum 
withdrawal credit limit. Re-registered courses cannot be withdrawn, except those re-registered 
courses that have been cleared subsequently. If a registered additional/ re-registered course is 
withdrawn, no refund will be made. A course once withdrawn through this process cannot be 
reinstated again. Though courses withdrawn shall be shown with a 'W' grade under student academic 
history, they will not be listed in semester Grade Sheet and Consolidated Grade Sheet. The courses 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
17
with ‘W’ grades will not be included for the calculation of the grade point. Registered backlog courses 
cannot be withdrawn. Withdrawal from a course is permitted subject to meeting the minimum credit 
limits for course registration as specified in Section 7.3. While withdrawing a course, students need 
to pay the re-registration charges as applicable and only if the fee is paid within a stipulated date the 
course withdrawal becomes effective. 
7.7 Course Prerequisites
Some courses may have specific prerequisites to be met before a student can register for the course. 
Generally the student is expected to have cleared all the prerequisite courses at the time of Course 
Registration. Students who had received an ‘F’ grade in a prerequisite course are also permitted to 
register the next level course by assuming that they had attained the required ‘exposure’ by 
attending that course. In case the student has met the minimum attendance as stipulated in Section 
8, eligible to write the FAT and also has written the FAT of a prerequisite course, but the result for 
the course is not yet declared (but not withheld) by the University, it will be assumed that the student 
has met the prerequisite condition by obtaining the required ‘exposure’ in that course. Under such 
circumstances, the student is permitted to register a higher level course having this course as 
prerequisite. Subsequently, when the results are declared by the University and if the student is 
awarded an ‘F’ grade in the course which was a prerequisite course, the Registration made for the 
higher level course will not be cancelled. This stand is adopted so that the student can make further 
progress towards earning credits and his/her progress need not be pulled down by backlog courses. 
Similar to prerequisite, a course may have an anti-requisite and/ or co-requisite. When two courses 
having almost similar/ same course contents and considered as equivalent are made available to a 
student to choose, and to prevent students crediting both the courses, the anti-requisite option can 
be used. Similarly, an independent laboratory course can be coupled to a theory-alone course 
through a co-requisite thereby forcing a student to register both the courses together.
8. Attendance
A student is expected to maintain 100% attendance in all courses. Considering the fact that a student 
may need leave due to ill-health or to attend some family emergency, a student is permitted to 
maintain an attendance of 75% (i.e. absent for 25% of instructional hours) in each course, without 
producing any proof for the absence. This 25% absence includes medical, personnel, casual, official 
leave of absence for organizing events/ seminars/ workshops/ technical/ cultural 
festivals/competitions/ participation in co-curricular/ extra-curricular events/ NSS & NCC camps, any 
