will be retained as it is and no second chance will be given to them to write the FAT. The ‘N’ grade 
will be converted into a performance grade after the student takes up the Re-FAT. If a student fails 
to write the FAT due to reasons other than the one indicated above shall be awarded ‘N’ grade by 
treating the course as incomplete. Letter grade ‘N’ carries ‘Zero’ grade point and to clear the course, 
the student has to register the course again in a subsequent semester and complete the same with 
a performance grade. 
Due to reasons beyond the control of the student/ University or due to non- academic reasons, if a 
student could not complete the entire course within a semester, he/she may be permitted to 
complete the remaining part of the course in a subsequent semester. This will be shown in the Grade 
Sheet by an ‘N’ grade indicating that the course remains incomplete. This can happen in cases like 
the theory portion of a lab embedded course is completed in a semester but the experiments could 
not be completed within the semester.
Grade ‘W’ is discussed in Section 7.6 and grade ‘U’ is discussed in Section 10 separately.
9.5 Absolute and Relative Grading
The letter grade awarded to a student for his/her performance in a course can be based on either 
the Absolute Grading or the Relative Grading concept.
The ‘Relative Grading’ concept indicates the academic standing of a student in his/her class. All the 
theory component of the courses, with the class strength is more than 10, shall follow class-wise 
relative grading concept. In Relative Grading, the following two extreme situations which normally 
upset the students are nullified 
1. Majority of students scoring very high marks because, either the question paper is easy or 
the evaluator is very lenient.
2. Majority of students scoring very low marks because of either the question paper is 
tough or the evaluator is very strict.
In this system, grades are awarded to students according to their performance relative to their peers 
in the same class (class is defined as a unique combination of course-slot-faculty). Normally the class 
average mark is taken as midpoint of ‘B’ grade, and relative to this and depending on the sigma (σ, 
standard deviation) value, the other grades are finalized as given in Table-5. A combination of 
absolute and relative grading systems is adopted in converting marks to grades
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
24
Table-5: Relative Grading - Letter Grade and its range
Relative Grading formula Letter Grade
Total Marks >= (Mean + 1.5σ) with a minimum of 90% total marks S
Total Marks >= (Mean + 0.5σ) and Total Marks < (Mean + 1.5σ) A
Total Marks >= (Mean - 0.5σ) and Total Marks < (Mean + 0.5σ) B
Total Marks >= (Mean – 1.0 σ) and Total Marks < (Mean - 0.5σ) C
Total Marks >= (Mean - 1.5σ) and Total Marks < (Mean - 1.0 σ) D
Total Marks >= (Mean - 2.0σ) and Total Marks < (Mean - 1.5σ) E
Total Marks < (Mean - 2.0σ) F
