6 
Courses taught through traditional classroom methods are categorized under Class Based Learning 
(CBL). Introduction of more project courses is to improve ‘learning by doing’ and also to increase the 
academic engagement of students. For Project course, the student has to take up a project related 
to the course in consultation with the faculty concerned and complete the project. The project can 
be a group project with a maximum of five members in a group. The size will reflect the complexity 
of the project. Students should make sure that the concepts studied are reflected in the project and 
that there is an innovative component. There will be a minimum of three reviews conducted in a 
semester and the marks will be awarded and taken for final grading. 
4.7 Course code 
Each course will be identified by a unique Course Code of eight alpha-numerals (Four alphabets 
followed by 3 digits and ended with 1 alphabet). The alphabets reflect the discipline to which the 
course belongs. The first numeral (after the alphabet) indicates the cognitive level of the course, and 
the rest of the numerals indicate a running serial number. Each course also has its version to track
the revisions carried out in its syllabus over the time.
5. Programme Duration
The minimum duration that the students are generally expected to take to meet various 
requirements of programmes offered by the University is given in Annexure – 1. A student is said to 
have completed the programme only if he / she completes the minimum courses assigned and earns 
credit requirements as specified in their programme curriculum concerned. However, degree will be 
awarded only upon the completion of the minimum duration of the programme as prescribed by 
UGC. The general rules and regulations stipulated in this document are also applicable to the double 
and dual degree programmes offered by the University and other special programmes announced 
by the University. However, their specific requirements will be as laid down and approved by the 
Academic Council separately, from time to time. Students will not be permitted to study additional 
courses except under Minors/Honours after they have met their curriculum requirements. The 
maximum duration students can take to complete their programme is given in Section 17. 
6. Course and Credit requirements
This section outlines the structure of the curriculum, courses and various requirements for 
programme completion.
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
7 
6.1 Course Credits
A course credit is a measurement of duration that the course is offered as an ‘instruction’ to students. 
All courses are considered to be offered for the entire duration of a semester. A semester is deemed 
to have 15 instructional (non-exam) weeks. A class room lecture (L) of 50 minutes duration per week, 
carried out during all weeks of the semester, shall be considered as one Instructional Unit or one 
Credit. A tutorial (T) of 50 minutes duration per week, carried out during all weeks of the semester, 
shall be considered as one Instructional Unit or one Credit. A minimum of 100 minutes per week of 
laboratory session/ practical or field work/ training (P) or a combination of these, carried out during 
