courses under his/her curriculum. Students having backlogs or under probation may get advice for 
pacing the programme accordingly.
7.2 Bridge Courses
During the first semester of the study period, the courses prescribed for the first semester alone will 
be registered by the School Academic Coordinator for all the students of all the programmes offered 
by the University. Further, depending on the proficiency in language and other necessary 
fundamental disciplines, the student may be asked to undergo some special courses (bridge courses), 
as recommended by his/her programme curriculum, to compensate his/her inadequacy. These 
courses will be recommended based on a screening test conducted by the University or based on the 
subjects student had completed during his/her previous qualifying school examinations. Such 
courses will also be registered automatically and will appear in the student’s timetable. The credits 
and grades so obtained will not be counted for the CGPA calculation / towards the minimum credit 
requirements for the completion of the programme as specified in Section 6.2.
7.3 Minimum/ Maximum Credit Limits for Course Registration
The number of credits most students are expected to register in a semester will be 23 (Average 
Academic Load) so that they complete the programme within the specified duration of the 
programme. However, a student can register for a maximum of 27 credits or a minimum of 16 credits 
in a regular semester (other than during summer and weekend Intra semesters). Under no 
circumstances a student, whether regular or timed-out, will be permitted to cross these limits. 
However, a student carrying out the last registration of his/her programme will be permitted to 
register less than 16 credits in order to meet the minimum credit requirements for the completion 
of programme. If a student has CGPA less than 4.0 at any time of their study, the student will be 
advised to register for a maximum of 16 credits. If the student fails to improve their performance in 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
15
the subsequent semesters, their studentship is liable to be cancelled. A Committee under Dean of 
Academics will look into those cases and recommend to the Vice-Chancellor on necessary further 
action to be initiated. 
There is no minimum / maximum number of credits fixed for course registration during summer or 
weekend semester. If the courses are offered and if there is no clash in time table, the student is 
permitted to register any number of courses. 
7.4 Registering for Backlog Courses
Students who have not cleared one or more component(s) of a course (Theory/ Lab) are shown with 
“N” grade. If a student clears all the components individually but if the grand total of that course does 
not meet the passing range then "F" grade is awarded. A course having an ‘F’ grade will be considered 
as a backlog and it has to be re- registered in the subsequent semesters. Students with F grade in 
courses are eligible to register the next level course (pre-requisite is met). If the student has cleared 
the theory component, but has N grade, he/she will be permitted to register the next level course 
(pre-requisite is met). Both F and N have to be cleared by re-registering the same course in the 
subsequent regular semester/ summer semester / weekend intra semester. If a student has not 
