cleared all the components (F Grade) (or) if the student opts for Grade Improvement then the course 
has to be completely (wholly) re-registered in all its components. On the other hand, if the student 
has cleared in one or more components but got N grade in that course, then the cleared components 
are exempted from re-registration. Re-registration fee will be as per the university norms existing at 
the time of re-registration (whole or a component of a course). When a course is re-registered wholly, 
all earlier course evaluation marks shall be treated as cancelled/ reset. If a student fails in a course 
due to lack of marks in the lab component of an embedded course, the student has to re-register the 
lab/project component alone. Courses having ‘W’ grade will not be considered as backlog. Students 
who are debarred from writing FAT will be given “N” grade, for that course, in the grade sheet. To 
provide an early opportunity for students to clear their backlog of courses, efforts will be made to 
offer as many courses as possible during fall, winter, weekend intra and summer semesters.
Students have to pay a Re-registration fee, as specified by the University from time to time, for the 
following cases: 1) registration of a course for which ‘N’ or ‘F’ or ‘W’ is given, or 2) registering a DE/OE 
(either same course or a substitution course) which was not cleared in the previous semester(s). 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
16
However, students are given an option to clear the course by appearing for the arrear examination 
after their final semester. Students should register for all the course components if he/she opts to 
clear the course through arrear examination. Component based registration is not applicable for 
arrear examination. If a student fails to clear the course through arrear examination option and if he 
wishes to clear through re-registration, then the student should register for all the components of 
the course.
 
7.5 Add/Drop of Courses
Option to add or drop a course (from the registered courses) is given during the first three 
instructional days of the semester (not applicable to summer / weekend semesters), subject to the 
availability of resources and the minimum/ maximum number of credits required to be registered in 
a semester as specified in Section 7.3. Only those courses that stand registered at the end of 
Add/Drop process will be considered as final for that semester. The courses thus dropped will not 
appear in the semester Grade Sheet of the student. The ‘dropped’ courses can be taken in the 
following semester when the courses are offered. Add/Drop provision is not available for the courses 
registered during weekend intra / summer semester, in view of their short duration. Add/ Drop is 
only an option given to the student. While exercising this option, if the student adds a new course 
then the student’s attendance is calculated from the date of adding the course. If he/she drops the 
course and again adds the same course then the attendance is calculated from the first date of adding 
the course and no compensation/ transfer of attendance shall be permitted. There is no reregistration fee for registering a ‘Dropped’ course again.
7.6 Course Withdrawal
If a student feels that his/her performance in CAT-I of a registered course is not satisfactory, the 
student can withdraw his/her Course Registration from the course. After finalization of CAT-I marks, 
the University will announce suitable days for carrying out Course Withdrawal. Course Withdrawal 
