declare such courses as equivalent and the same may be recommended. Course equivalence is 
applicable to all curricula, present and the future. However, the number of credits to be earned 
cannot be altered and all conditions specified in Section 6 need to be adhered. All different versions 
of the same course are considered equivalent. Credits of the original course (of the curriculum) will 
be considered as ‘earned’, if there is a credit difference to the equivalent course. Grade Sheet and 
Consolidated Grade Sheet will indicate the original course code and title only and not the equivalent 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
38
course the student has registered or written as the arrear exam. Once a Course Equivalence is 
established between courses, various curricula using those courses will be automatically updated by 
putting both the courses into a single basket. Hence students need to do only one course in that 
basket to meet their credit requirement. No explicit approval of the Academic Council is needed to 
this effect.
18. Honours Club
Students who maintain a CGPA of 9.25 and above, having no ‘F’ grade to their credit and have never 
been debarred for lack of attendance in any CAT/ any component of continuous assessment/ FAT 
or indiscipline, will be admitted into the Honours Club for their meritorious performance. Their 
admission will be withdrawn if they fail to meet any of the conditions stipulated above. Such students 
will be benefitted by one or more of the following means.
● given preference while the University sponsors students to attend seminar/ 
conference/ workshop 
● issued a Certificate of Merit
● given a Cash award or scholarship for the subsequent semesters
19. Time Limit for Programme Completion
For various programmes, the ‘minimum period of study’ (n) a student is expected to study to 
complete his/her is given in Annexure 1. However, if a student has few backlog courses yet to be 
cleared even after the completion of the above said time limit, the student will be permitted to 
complete all the course and credit requirements specified in the curriculum, with an additional grace 
period of three years from the year of joining the University under that programme (‘n+3’). Under 
no circumstances, the period of study shall be extended beyond (n+3) years and thereafter his/her 
studentship stands cancelled automatically. No separate intimation in this regard will be sent to the 
student. Such cases will be brought to the notice of the Academic Council by the Dean of Academics. 
No formal approval of the Academic Council is required for the cancellation of such studentships. A 
candidate may be recommended by the Dean of a programme School to temporarily break the study 
for a maximum period of one year for valid reasons such as accident or hospitalization due to 
prolonged ill health, and same may be forwarded to the Dean, Academics for approval. An official 
order will be issued by the Registrar clearly stating the conditions therein. In such cases the time limit 
for programme completion will be extended by the period of break of study. However, if any student 
is debarred / suspended for the lack of attendance or acts of indiscipline for one or more semester(s), 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
