opt for an alternative method of doing an internship. The students can undertake the domain specific 
project work under the guidance of the assigned faculty guide during the same tenure of internship. 
The format of Student Project report should be in accordance to the format prescribed by the 
University/ School. Students are permitted to do courses along with their project work subject to the 
maximum credits permitted for registration as specified in Section 7.3. Students doing their projects 
abroad can participate in the reviews through video conferencing.
Though Project is expected to be registered during the semester of the programme period, under 
special circumstances, Student project can be registered in a semester other than the final, provided 
the student has earned a minimum of sixty five percentage of credits as per the curriculum. For this 
purpose, the minimum credits required will be the sum of all course credits in which the students has 
a 'performance grade' or an 'F' grade or an ‘N’ grade (in which the student is yet to complete atleast 
one of the component), plus the credits registered during the just previous semester for which the 
results are not yet published. Registration of Project Work is not permitted during the summer/ 
weekend semesters. However, courses of project type (viz. mini project), carrying 2 or 3 credits, can 
be carried out during summer semester. Courses of project type having less credits may also be 
evaluated on the same pattern similar to Project. In such cases, instead of the “Student Project 
Monitoring Committee”, the guide will evaluate the project along with the HoD. 
Table 1 : Timeline for Student Project evaluation 
Activity Weightage Weightage
1stReview 
(acceptance of project title)
5% To be held during the first week 
of the semester
2nd Review 40% To be scheduled during the 
CAT-I period
Submission of draft Project Report 
to Internal Guide
5% 10 calendar days before the viva 
voce exam
Submission of Synopsis - 7 calendar days before the viva 
voce exam
Report corrections/modifications 
to be informed to students by 
Guides
- 3 calendar days before the viva 
voce exam
Submission of Project Report in its 
final form
- One instructional day before 
the viva voce exam
