39
it shall not be considered as break of study. Such an option can be availed only once for the entire 
programme duration.
If a student drops a semester after commencement of the semester, the fees paid will not be 
refunded and/or adjusted in the subsequent semester. Courses registered by the student will be 
‘dropped’ and removed from the Registered Courses list and hence not indicated in the Semester 
Grade Sheet also. However, when the student registers those courses again in a subsequent 
semester, he/she has to pay the re-registration fee for each course. If the student drops the semester 
prior to the commencement of the semester, he/she has to pay a semester continuation fee 
prescribed from time to time and the balance fees paid will be adjusted in the subsequent semester.
20. Award of Degree
After successful completion of the course and credit requirements as specified in the programme 
curriculum and upon meeting the minimum credit requirement as specified in Section 6.2, a 
Provisional Certificate will be issued to eligible students by the Controller of Examinations. The 
degree will be conferred on the student during the subsequent Convocation. The degree certificate 
will indicate the relevant branch, and specializations if any, in which the student has graduated along 
with minor/ honours if earned by the student.
Example: ‘Bachelor of Technology in Civil Engineering’, or ‘Bachelor of Technology in Mechanical 
Engineering (Manufacturing Engineering) or ‘Bachelor of Technology (Honours) in Computer Science 
Engineering with specialization in Data Science; or ‘Bachelor of Technology in Civil Engineering with 
Minor in Data Science’. 
21. Modification in Regulations
The current FFCS Regulations Version replaces the previous FFCS Regulations Versions and all the 
previous Circulars/ Orders/ Notes issued by the University on issues dealt herein. Notwithstanding 
anything mentioned herein, the Academic Council of the University has the right to add, delete or 
modify these regulations time to time. In case of any dispute arising in interpreting the rules, only 
the interpretation given by the Academic Council will be considered as final and binding.
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
40
Annexure – 1
Minimum duration of the Programme 
Programme Minimum period of Study
B.Tech., B.Des., B.Sc. (Hons) Agriculture 4 years
M.Tech., M.Des., M.Arch. 2 years
M.Tech. (5 year Integrated), B.Arch. 5 Years
M.Sc., MCA, MBA, Master of Social Work 2 years
M.Sc. (5 year Integrated) 5 years
BCA, B.Sc., B.Com., BBA 3 year