(Section 7.4) or grade improvement (Section 13) to improve grades obtained in a ‘Minor’ course to 
raise the CGPA to the required level. Student has to complete a minimum of 18 credits as prescribed 
in the curriculum of each ‘Minor’ programme to become eligible for ‘Minor’. No relaxation in the 
maximum number of credits a student can register during a semester, as indicated in Section 7.3, will 
be given to courses under ‘Minor’. The grades obtained in the courses credited towards the ‘Minor’ 
award are not counted and shall have no influence on the GPA/ CGPA of the programme’ the student 
has registered.
13.2 ‘Honours’ credential
Additional credits acquired in his/her own major programme discipline entitles a student to get 
‘Honours’ credential. All Schools offering various programmes will offer honours in their disciplines, 
and will prescribe what set of courses and/or projects is necessary for earning a honor in that 
discipline.. Schools should ensure that the student will not be indirectly forced to take courses other 
than the ones prescribed under that ‘honours’ list as ‘pre-requisite’ courses. Students who wish to 
acquire ‘Honours’ credential need to carry out ‘honours’ course registration along with their regular 
semester course registration. He/she accumulates credits by registering for the required courses, 
and if the requirements for ‘Honours’ are met within the prescribed minimum time limit of the 
programme, the ‘Honours’ will be awarded along with the degree. Also, the student should have a 
minimum average CGPA of 7.50 in the ‘Honours’ courses registered to become eligible for the 
‘Honours’ award. If necessary, the student may use options like registering the failed ‘Honours’ 
course again in a subsequent semester (Section 7.4) or grade improvement (Section 13) to improve 
grades obtained in a ‘Honours’ course to raise the CGPA to the required level.
A student has to complete a minimum of 18 credits as prescribed in the curriculum of each ‘Honours’ 
programme to become eligible for ‘Honours’. No relaxation in the maximum number of credits a 
student can register during a semester, as indicated in Section 7.3, will be given to students opting 
for ‘Honours’. In case a student withdraws from the ‘Honours’ registration in the middle of the 
programme, the ‘Honours’ courses successfully completed will be converted to ‘Audit’ courses and 
indicated accordingly in subsequent Grade Sheets and Consolidated Grade Sheet. Honours award 
will be mentioned in the Degree Certificate as “Bachelor of Technology (Honours) in (name of the 
programme) with specialization in “Honours programme”. Ex.: Bachelor of Technology (Honours) in 
Computer Science and Engineering with specialization in Data Science. This fact will also be reflected 
in the Consolidated Grade Sheet under a separate heading ‘Honours’ with similar details shown for 
other credited courses and the CGPA for ‘Honours’ will be indicated at the end of list of courses under 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
34
‘Honours’. The grades obtained in the courses credited towards the ‘Honours’ award are not counted 
and shall have no influence on the GPA/ CGPA of the ‘programme’ student has registered.
14. Course Substitution
If a student receives an ‘F’ grade in a DE course, and if the student wishes, he/she is permitted to 
take another DE course from the same basket, in lieu of DE course the student had failed to clear, in 
a subsequent semester and clear the new DE course. However, the student has to pay for the 
