Duration of Study / Internship / Project: 
: Minimum One full Semester (4 to 5 months)
: Maximum of Two Semesters (8 to 10 months) 
Maximum number of Credits eligible for Transfer
 : 21 Credits (exclusive of the number of credits for UG / PG Project work) 
 : Credit Transfer will be considered only for the courses under Programme 
 Elective / Discipline Elective and University Elective / Open Elective category. 
Course Title / Content Verification for Credit Transfer and award of Grade
 School Committee (Course Coordinator / HoD / Dean) is responsible to verify the course title 
/ content of the course completed by the student through Semester Abroad Program and recommend 
the number of credits to be considered under each category (Programme Elective / Discipline Elective 
and University Elective / Open Elective) and the Grade to be awarded. 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
37
UG / PG Project work 
Option – I: Students take up their Project work in the campus of the University Abroad under the 
guidance of a Faculty member from that University in addition to a guide from VIT. The progress of 
the work is monitored by both the guides and will be evaluated periodically. The final viva voce 
examination for the project will be conducted in VIT only after successful completion of the project 
and the arrival of the student. 
Option – II: Completing the Internship / Project elsewhere through Semester Abroad Program and 
claiming for Credit Transfer. School Committee (Course Coordinator / HoD / Dean) is responsible to 
verify the quality of the work completed by the student through Semester Abroad Program and 
recommend the Grade to be awarded. 
 
# Grades scored for the Courses, Masters Thesis / Capstone Project completed through Semester 
Abroad Program will be considered for calculating the CGPA for the student.
17. Course Equivalence
Regular updating of curriculum and syllabi is essential to reflect advancements made in various fields. 
The students who have studied the courses of previous curriculum are permitted to register courses
of current curriculum. The FFCS permits a student to register a course at any time or re-register a 
course again to clear their backlog. By the time a student registers a course or re-registers next time, 
there could be some modifications carried out in the syllabus of course(s) and a new syllabus version 
that is different to the version indicated in his/her curriculum be currently offered to students. If the 
changes effected are marginal, both the syllabi are considered to be equivalent and the student 
registering first time or re-registering the course has to undertake the new syllabi currently being 
offered. No separate classes with the older version of syllabus will be offered to the student to clear 
their backlog. After careful study of syllabi, the Course Committee may also identify new courses 
considered equivalent to those courses that were dropped from the curriculum for various reasons. 
Based on the recommendations of the Course Committee, Dean of the programme School shall 
