are treated as laboratory course and absolute grading system will be followed with a weightage 
distribution of 60% for continuous assessment and 40% for the final assessment test.
9.7 Evaluation of Courses having Embedded Laboratory 
When a course has both theory and laboratory components, the FAT will be conducted for the theory 
and laboratory components. The total marks of the course shall be calculated based on the ratio 
between the theory (including tutorials) and laboratory credits i.e.(L+T:P/2)). To make students 
attend lab classes without fail and to increase the importance given to the lab classes, a pass / fail
condition is imposed on the lab component of an embedded course. Students who do not earn a 
minimum of 50% marks (average of the marks awarded for the individual exercises) are declared as
‘Fail’ in the lab component, and consequently will be considered as ‘not completed’ (embedded) 
course also, and hence an “N” grade will be awarded. No separate letter grades shall be awarded 
for individual theory and laboratory components of a lab embedded course. The students have to 
re-register the lab component and complete it. If he/she has got >= 50% in lab, and fails in Theory, 
then the same marks can be taken up for grading purposes after he/she completes the Theory FAT
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
26
successfully. They also have the option of re-registering the whole course for Grade improvement. 
9.8 Viewing Internal Assessment Marks
Internal assessment marks will be available in the student login for all the registered courses, at least 
one week before the FAT. Any discrepancies noticed by the student in his / her internal assessment 
marks should be intimated to the corresponding class faculty member. If the issue is not resolved 
then, it can be escalated to the Proctor/Hod/School Dean within 2 days from the commencement of 
FAT. Late requests will not be entertained.
9.9 Perusal of answer sheets, Re-evaluation and Declaration of results
After evaluation of CAT, the answer scripts, will be handed over to the students. Any discrepancy in 
the evaluation will be corrected in person immediately. However, after the completion of the FAT, 
the marks entered by the faculty will be made visible to the students as per the schedule announced 
by the University. Subsequently, students desirous of seeing their FAT answer scripts have to apply 
for the same within the time period specified and by paying the prescribed fee. If the student feels 
that the answer script is needs to be re-evaluated because of any discrepancy in the evaluation, they 
have to apply within the time period specified and by paying the prescribed fee. Upon re-evaluation, 
if there is a change in marks to the extent of 5% deviation from the original marks, the best of the 
two will be considered for grading. However, if the change in the mark is more than 5%, it will be 
evaluated again by a different examiner and the best of the three will be considered for grading. Final 
letter grades will be awarded based on the earlier calculated ‘grade band’ range of marks (no recalculation of mean & SD again). In case a student is not satisfied with the re-evaluation, he/she may 
apply to an ‘Examination Appellate Committee’ with the necessary fees. The Committee consisting 
of the faculty who originally corrected the answer script and another faculty in the same field of 
specialization (to be drawn from the Course Committee) will re-evaluate the paper together. The 
marks awarded by the ‘Appellate Committee’ will be final. Letter grade will be awarded as per the 
class relative ‘grading band’, without re-calculating the class average and standard deviation again. 
