other (valid or otherwise) reason. Computerized attendance monitoring system is adopted for 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
18
posting the attendance by the faculty. Since no one is exempted from the minimum attendance 
conditions stipulated as below, students who fail to maintain the minimum attendance criteria will 
not be permitted to write the next evaluation component of the course (CAT/FAT Exam component 
fixed by the course faculty in case of courses) and they will be considered as ‘debarred from writing 
the exam’. The attendance software shall indicate the student status of that exam component as 
‘Debarred’ once the student crosses below the minimum attendance requirement. Students who are 
‘debarred’ from writing the FAT component of a course shall be awarded an “N” grade and they have 
to re-register the course again and clear with a performance grade. The attendance percentage will 
be calculated from the ‘date of registration’ into a course to one day before the start of the exam 
component. The minimum attendance requirements for various components of evaluation of a 
course are given in Table-2.
Table 2 : Minimum Attendance Requirement
Attendance 
eligibility
criteria for
Period of calculation of absence Minimum 
percent
attendance 
required
CAT-I From the date of registration into the course 
to one day before the start of CAT-I exams
75%
CAT-II From the date of registration into the course 
to one day before the start of CAT-II exams
75%
FAT From the date of registration into the course 
to the Last Instructional Day (inclusive)
75%
To encourage students to attend seminars, conferences, workshops, training programmes, short 
duration courses offered by specialized institutions, etc. who otherwise shy off availing such benefits 
due to losing of attendance in various courses, students having a CGPA of 9.00 and above (CGPA ≥ 
9.00) and with no current backlog courses are exempted from the minimum attendance 
requirements. It is expected that these students will continue to attend all the classes without 
absence and will not take this as an advantage to skip classes. If such students’ CGPA falls below 9.00, 
they will be subjected to the minimum attendance requirements again. For this purpose, the ninepointers list will be dynamically generated and applied at the time of preparation of debarred list of 
each exam component (CAT/FAT) of a course. Hence the exemption status may change before any 
exam component depending on the declaration of results. However, no retrospective effect will be 
