given to earlier decisions of inclusion/ exclusion from debarred list based on the CGPA the students 
had at that time. In view of the short duration of the summer/ weekend intra semester, the 
exemption from the minimum attendance requirement will not be extended to the 9.0 CGPA 
students.
Students who are absent due to prolonged illness or any other valid reason from the classes beyond 
the 25% absence shall be advised to request for ‘Break of Study’ on medical grounds for a semester 
as indicated in Section 17. This may result in extension of minimum time period of completion of the 
programme.
The university has declared sectional holidays for Meelad-un-Nabi, Muharram, Bakrid, Onam, Telugu 
New Year's Day and Good Friday. The students who are availing the sectional holidays which is 
declared as instructional day, then he/she has to submit their request to the HoD Chair through the 
Proctor for consideration of attendance.
9. Assessment/ Evaluation
The performance of a student in a theory/ lab course under CBL shall be assessed through a series of 
Continuous Assessment Tests (CAT), Digital Assignments, and shall be followed by a Final Assessment 
Test (FAT). 
9.1 Class Based Learning 
Assessment for class based learning consists of Continuous Assessment Marks (CAM) and one Final 
Assessment Test (FAT) for each course offered under CBL. CAM shall have various components like 
CAT-I and CAT-II, Challenging Assignments / Mini Projects depending on the credit distribution (LTPC 
Components) as given in Table-3. Each CAT will be conducted for 90 minutes and for a maximum of 
50 marks. The marks, scored by students for 50, are converted to a scale of 15. CAT- II is of ‘open 
book / open notebook’ type (students are allowed to bring any number of books and hand written 
note books). A Final Assessment Test for 3 hours shall be conducted for a maximum of 100 marks.
The total of CAT-I, CAT-II, Digital Assignments accounts to 60% continuous Assessment marks. The 
remaining 40% weightage corresponds to the FAT. The digital assignment marks of 30% in a theory 
component of the course for continuous assessment will be decided by the concerned teacher who 
has the liability to go for either assignment or any other mode of continuous assessment with 
corresponding weightages suitable to the course. However, the assessment mode and weightage 
should be decided before the commencement of course in the semester, approved by the HoD and 
intimated to the students. All exams, other than the FAT, will be conducted by the programme School 
concerned or by a centralized arrangement. FATs will be conducted centrally by CoE office. 
Improvement of marks in any of the examinations is not permitted by a repeat exam or by any other 
means.
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
20
Table 3: Assessment Components and Weightage
L T P C L T P C L T P C L T P C
✔ ✔ 0 ✔ 0 0 ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 0 0 0 ✔
Theory-only
