are offered under a fast track mode, considering the less number of instructional days available 
during weekends and summer vacation periods. However, the number of instructional hours needed 
to cover the syllabi shall be maintained (equivalent to that in the regular semester) with more 
number of instruction hours per week. Unless otherwise specified explicitly, all rules and regulations 
applicable to a course offered during a regular semester is applicable to the courses offered during 
weekend and summer semesters also. The maximum number of courses to be taken, eligibility 
criteria to register and related information shall be specified through Circulars issued by the 
University from time to time.
Though weekend intra semester and summersemesters are conducted to help students to clear their 
backlog, it is not binding on the University to offer these semesters or courses during these 
semesters. 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
4 
4.2 Curriculum
Each programme contains a prescribed list of courses in a specific format which is generally called 
“Curriculum”. Curriculum of a programme contains list of courses grouped under various heads, viz. 
Foundation Core, Discipline Linked Engineering Courses, Discipline Core, Discipline Elective/ 
Specialization Elective, Open Elective, Skill Enhancement Courses, Ability Enhancement Courses, 
Value Added Courses, English Language Courses, Foreign Language Courses, Major Courses, Minor 
Courses, Compulsory Courses, Compulsory Clinical Courses, Optional Courses, Honours Courses, and 
Project and Internship. Details of these heads are given under Section 6.4. A student is considered to 
have completed the degree programme, if and only if, he/she has successfully cleared/ completed 
all the necessary courses prescribed in his/her programme curriculum. Each programme Curriculum 
shall have a version number tagged to the Academic Year to which it is applicable and subsequent 
changes in the Curriculum shall be indicated by a change in curriculum version number appropriately. 
Students admitted into a programme shall adopt a curriculum specified by the Academic Council for
that academic year. Unless otherwise stated explicitly by the Academic Council, any changes in 
curriculum will be applicable to the students admitted in the subsequent year and the existing 
batches continue to follow the curriculum prescribed at the time of their joining the programme.
Each Head of the Department (HoD) looks after one or more programmes and hence the HoD is 
deemed to be responsible for the curriculum. Any change in the Curriculum should be recommended 
by the Board of Studies of the programme concerned and submitted to the Academic Council by the 
Chairperson of the Board of Studies concerned for approval.
4.3 Syllabus
A course syllabus is a document that explains what a student is going to learn in that course. Each 
syllabus for a course shall have a course code, course title, LTPC (explained in Section 6.1), syllabus 
revision number (version), course prerequisites/ co- requisites/ anti-requisites (if any), course 
objectives, expected course outcomes (COs), modules with short topics, brief description of the 
topics, expected duration needed to cover each module, suggested text and reference books, the 
date on which the Board of Studies has recommended the syllabus and the date on which it was 
