1. A B.Tech., M.Tech.(SE), and M.Sc. (5 year Integrated) programme students can register a 
maximum of two audit courses during his/her entire programme. Other programme 
students can register only one audit course during his/her entire programme. Such courses 
should be indicated as ‘Audit’ during the time of Registration itself. Late registration is not 
permitted for an Audit course.
2. A student is permitted to register an audit course only if his/her CGPA is equal to or more 
than 8.0 at the time of Registration.
3. The student should maintain the minimum attendance conditions specified in Section 8, 
even for the ‘audit’ course.
4. Only courses currently offered for credit to other students can be audited.
5. A course appearing as a FC/DC/DLEC course in the curriculum of a student cannot be audited 
(i.e. audit course cannot be converted to a credit course). However, if a student has already 
met the DE credit requirements as stipulated in the curriculum, then, a DE course listed in 
the curriculum and not taken by the student for credit, can be audited.
6. Students registering for an audit course should undergo all the assessment procedures 
applicable for a credited student of that course. Only if the student obtains any performance 
grade, the course will be mentioned in the semester Grade Sheet and in the Consolidated 
Grade Sheet by a ‘U’ grade, and not his/her performance grade in the audited course.
7. Withdrawal of an audit course is permitted and the procedure indicated in Section 7.6 needs 
to be followed. If a student fails to clear an audit course, withdraws the registration, fails to 
maintain the minimum attendance requirements, or fails to write the FAT, etc., he/she will 
be awarded a ‘W’ grade, by treating all such conditions as course withdrawal. Any W grade 
course will be shown in the semester grade sheet but not in the consolidated Grade sheet. 
Hence, as a regulation the Audit course will not be shown in the Consolidated Grade sheet if 
he/she fails to complete the course.
8. Since an audit course has no grade points assigned, it will not be counted for the purpose of 
GPA and CGPA calculations.
9. If a student does not write the FAT on valid medical/ non-medical reasons, no Re-FAT request 
can be made for audit courses.
10. There will be no extra payment for the audit courses, limited to the number of audit courses 
taken as specified above.
11. Only one Audit course can be registered per semester. However, students at their 
graduating year are permitted to register more than one audit course. The norms as 
related to the pre-requisites conditions are to be met in such cases.
11. Registering Post Graduate level courses 
 Undergraduate students having a CGPA of 8.00 or more are permitted to credit a Post Graduate level 
course, in his/her major area of specialization (or related discipline), against his/her OE option only. 
An undergraduate student is permitted to register a Post Graduate level course as an audit course 
only if his/her CGPA is equal to or more than 8.00 at the time of Registration. However, no relaxation 
of conditions indicated in Sections 6.2 and 6.3 is permitted while auditing/ crediting Post Graduate 
