complete all the courses listed under DC to become eligible for the degree. No substitution of a 
course listed under DC by another course is permitted.
6.3.3 Discipline Elective (DE)/Specialization Elective (SE)
By taking courses under DE / SE, students get an opportunity to study courses which are more 
advanced or applied or specialized than the basic courses he/she studies as part of DC courses. These 
courses will generally provide an in-depth knowledge of a specific sub-field the student has taken as 
his/her major specialization. DE courses need not be restricted to his/ her major specialization
whereas SE is restricted to the basket defined. DE / SE courses that are not offered to students in a 
given academic year or that have low student registration for two consecutive academic years will 
be removed. DE / SE courses play a crucial role in offering Honours. If a new DE / SE is added to a 
subsequent curriculum of a programme, students adopting the earlier curriculum applicable to their 
year of joining are also permitted to register the same as their DE / SE, since it ultimately helps them 
to expand their knowledge. 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
9 
6.3.4 Open Elective (OE)
A separate list of courses offered by various schools will be made available to the students under 
Open Elective basket. This gives an opportunity for students to satisfy their aspirations in other 
disciplines also. The number of credits a student is permitted to take under OE is as specified in their 
Curriculum. This can be availed as a combination of smaller course credits also, without any 
additional payment. Students are permitted to register for online courses offered by SWAYAMNPTEL. The credits earned through completing the SWAYAM-NPTEL course can be claimed for credit 
transfer to meet the credit requirement under Open Elective category only.
6.3.5 Skill Enhancement Courses (SEC)
Students can take any course from the SEC Category if applicable for their programme. 
6.3.6 Ability Enhancement Courses (AEC)
Students can take any course from the AEC Category if applicable for their programme.
6.3.7 Project and Internship
Industrial Internship: 
During their tenure in the University, students get exposure to academic environment which is 
different from their future work environment, viz. industry, wherein they are expected to be placed. 
To get this exposure, all students should undergo four weeks of industrial internship in a reputed 
industry in their respective discipline of study, any time after their first year of study for the credits 
prescribed in the curriculum. This training can be availed as a single stretch of four weeks or in two 
stretches of two-week duration each. Each School shall identify a faculty in-charge of Industrial 
Internship at programme level who will assist the students in identifying the industry and getting 
necessary approval from the industry. During the training, students are expected to maintain a digital 
log of their activity and learning. At the end the training, a report along with a completion 
certificate(s) from the Industry where they had received the training, are to be uploaded into the 
academic software. Subsequently, Schools shall form “Industrial Internship evaluation committees” 
and award marks. Students who had completed their training may register for the industrial 
