approved by the Academic Council. Once approved by the Academic Council, it is mandatory for the 
course teacher to teach the course as specified in the syllabus in total. Any subsequent modifications 
carried out with the approval of the Academic Council will be indicated by a change in the syllabus 
version number. An increment by one indicates a major change and minor changes shall be indicated 
by a change in the number after the decimal. For example, change from Version 1.0 to Version 2.0 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
5 
indicates major change in the syllabus, whereas a change from Version 1.0 to 1.1 indicates a minor 
change in the syllabus.
A Course Committee consisting of a minimum of three faculty members who have taught the course 
in the past or currently teaching, shall be created and the syllabi of that course will be assigned to 
the Course Committee for content creation, modification, recommending course equivalences, and 
other related processes. School Deans may nominate the members or alternate them periodically. 
Course Committee is considered to be responsible for the syllabus. The School which originally 
created the syllabus for offering the course is deemed to be its owner. 
4.4 Course Plan
A course plan consists of a list of lectures/ experiments carried out in each instructional class/ lab by 
the course teacher during the semester as per the LTPC of the course, with details like mode of 
delivery, reference material used, and others. One credit in a course requires, 15 lecture hours for 
theory, 15 hours for tutorial, a minimum of 30 hours of laboratory work, within the regular semester 
period or in a summer/ weekend intra semester period, as specified in the Academic Calendar of the 
University. Separate course plans need to be prepared for the theory/laboratory of any course. Lab 
exercises and projects given to students should reflect the syllabus content of the course.
4.5 Course Flowchart
A flowchart describing how various courses under Foundation Core, Discipline Linked Engineering 
Courses, Discipline Core, Discipline Elective/ Specialization Elective, Open Elective, Skill Enhancement
Courses, Ability Enhancement Courses and Project and Internship are connected through 
prerequisites, if any, shall be shown and made part of the curriculum. Standard pictorial 
representations are adopted to indicate the basket it belongs to and grouped in such a way to 
indicate its proposed semester of offering. Necessary pre-, anti-, co-requisites and its LTPC are
indicated for each course along with its course code.
4.6 Course Types
Courses may be classified as Theory only, Lab only, Theory and Lab embedded courses. Certain 
courses like Summer Internships, Research Project, Dissertation, Industrial Internship Project-I, 
Project-II, Study Oriented Project, Design Project, Internship-I, Internship-II, Dissertation-I, 
Dissertation-II are grouped under “Project and Internship”. Courses such as TARP, Reading course / 
Design Project / Laboratory Product Project / Development Project / Simulation Project are generally 
grouped under ‘Project type’ courses, with evaluation criteria as specified in the syllabus or based on 
its evaluation criteria. 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
