course, questions based on Higher Order Thinking skill (HOTs) is introduced in all CATs and FAT 
examinations. The simplest thinking skills are learning facts and recall, while higher order skills 
include critical thinking, analysis and problem solving. Initially, all CAT and FAT question papers shall 
carry questions based on HOTs to an extent of 80% of the total questions asked in each question 
paper. Open book CAT exam should have 100% HOTs questions. 
9.3 Eligibility for Examinations
All students who have registered for a particular course are eligible to write the CAT and FAT 
(Theory/Lab) of that course, provided he/she is not debarred from writing the exam due to one or 
more of reasons listed below.
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
21
1. Shortage of attendance
2. Acts of indiscipline
3. Withdrawal of a registered course
Any student with benchmark disability not availing the facility of scribe may be allowed additional 
time of 30 minutes for CAT and 60 minutes for FAT at the discretion of School Dean / CoE. 
9.4 Grading System
For every course registered by a student, at the end of the semester, he/she is assigned a ‘Letter 
Grade’ based on his/her cumulative performance over the semester in that course. The letter grade 
and its ‘Grade Point’ indicate the results of both qualitative and quantitative assessment of student’s 
performance in a course. A student is declared to have passed in a theory only Course, theory with 
lab embedded Course, lab only or project only courses, only if he/she meets the following conditions, 
as relevant to the type of individual courses:
a) Should have secured a minimum of 40% marks in the theory FAT alone
b) Should have secured a minimum of 50% marks out of total marks awarded to the laboratory 
and/or project components. 
c) Should have secured a minimum of 50% marks out of the grand total marks awarded to the 
course (all component marks taken in their credit ratio for 100 marks), for all other course 
types except the ‘theory only course’
d) For a theory only course passing criteria is based on the relative grading band.
e) There is no minimal marks set for the continuous assessments (CAM).
In case of laboratory/project courses, students should earn a minimum of 50% marks. No separate 
letter grade shall be indicated/ awarded for a pass/ fail in a lab component or project component of 
an embedded course or a component of any continuous assessment of a theory course. A single 
letter grade shall be used to indicate the pass/ fail of a course in total.
Students who fail to meet the above pass criteria are awarded an ‘F’ grade. Students who have an ‘F’ 
grade need to re-register the course again to clear it. There will be no pass/fail criteria in continuous 
assessments. The letter grades and their corresponding grade points are given in Table-4. The remarks 
column describes the circumstance under which the specific grade is offered. 
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
