9.11 Absence from an Exam
If a student fails to write any CAT, the student will lose the percentage weightage given to the CAT
exam. No Re-CAT will be conducted again to compensate the loss. This condition is also applicable 
to students who had been admitted in the previous batches, but have registered for an equivalent
course listed in the latest curriculum. 
Students are encouraged to take up internship in prestigious Universities abroad during their 
vacation period. However, if due to unavoidable circumstances, the student fails to write the CAT - I, 
then a Re-CAT I is scheduled separately for the benefit of these students. However, these students 
are required to take prior permission from the School Dean before availing the internship. Students 
who have been conferred with fellowships by Indian Academies (Science and Engineering) for 
undertaking research activity in prestigious Institutes / Universities are also eligible to take up the 
Re-CAT I. Students who miss the CATs due to placement activities are also eligible to appear for the 
Re-CATs, provided they meet the minimum attendance requirement. Re-CATs are also permitted for 
student who fail to appear the regular CAT due to health condition, especially hospitalization
Under extraordinary conditions, if a student is not able to appear for the Final Assessment Test (FAT) 
of a theory/ Student Project (final viva voce exam), due to hospitalization (in-patient treatment) for 
more than a week duration or death of a family member, the student may apply to the Vice 
Chancellor by submitting an application through the School Dean, Head of the Department and the 
Proctor, supported by adequate evidence or proper medical certificate duly authenticated by the 
Chief Medical Officer of the University, as the case may be, within 14 calendar days after the 
completion of the FAT. Such applications will be scrutinized by a special committee constituted by 
the Vice Chancellor and if necessary, the student may be asked to appear before the Committee for 
presenting the case. Any student who fails to apply for such Re-FAT in the prescribed manner will be 
deemed to have failed in the course(s) and has to repeat the course(s) by registering again in 
subsequent semesters. Such examinations will be conducted along with other FATs or separately, as 
decided and scheduled by the University. Such cases will be treated as ‘first’ attempt. If a student 
fails to write the scheduled Re-FAT for any reason (even those slated above), he/ she need to register 
the course again and clear it. The student will be awarded ‘N’ grade in the course he/she failed to 
write. Student permitted for Re-FAT will be awarded grade as per the class relative ‘grading band’, 
without re-calculating the class average and standard deviation again.
FFCS Academic Regulations - Version 4.0
29
9.12 Semester Grade Sheet and Consolidated Grade Sheet
At the end of each semester, all students will be issued a Grade Sheet. This Grade Sheet will be an 
accurate log of course activity of a student in each semester and hence all courses registered 
(including those courses that are awarded F, N, W, U, P, substituted, re-registered, audited, grade 
improvement courses) will be listed semester wise along with the grade points earned (performance 
and others grades), course credits, GPA, CGPA, etc. This will reflect the performance of a student 
during the specific semester. 
The overall performance of a student in all semesters since joining the programme will be shown in 
