MISCONDUCT :
A student who commits misconduct shall be liable to be dealt with in accordance with the 
provisions of these Rules. 
For the purpose of these Rules without prejudice to the general meaning of the term, the 
following acts and omissions shall constitute misconduct and the term ‘habitual’ shall mean 
as defined hereinabove. 
(i) Willful insubordination or instigation thereof, disobedience or instigation thereof 
whether alone or in combination with another, of any lawful and reasonable 
instruction of any member of the Faculty. 
(ii) Participation in an illegal or unjustified strike or abetting, inciting, instigating or 
acting in furtherance thereof, whether alone or in combination with others. 
(iii) Theft, fraud or dishonesty in connection with the Institute’s property or theft of 
another student or employee’s property within the Institute. 
Amended in 72nd Board of Management held on 6 April 2023 3 | P a g e
(iv) Giving bribes or any other illegal gratifications to any employee in any manner 
whatsoever. 
(v) Habitual absence from attending classroom or lab sessions without permission or 
absence without permission. 
(vi) Frequent or Habitual late attendance. 
(vii) Habitual breach or gross and deliberate violation of any Code of Conduct, or any 
law applicable to the Institute or any rules made thereunder. 
(viii) Collecting contributions for any purpose whatsoever at any time without the 
permission of the Dean of the respective school. 
(ix) Engaging in trade within the Institute without the written permission of the Dean of 
the respective school. 
(x) Drunkenness or riotous, disorderly, indecent or improper behavior, use of abusive 
language, threatening, intimidating, coercing or interfering with the work of other 
students / employees, assault or threat of assault either provoked or otherwise 
within the Institute or the commission of any act subversive of good and proper 
behavior within the Institute. 
(xi) Commission of any act or conduct subversive of the discipline whether within the 
premises or outside in connection with Institute’s work. 
(xii) Habitual negligence or neglect of instructions. 
(xiii) Habitual breach of any rules or instructions for the maintenance and operation of 
any department or the maintenance of the cleanliness of any portion of the Institute. 
(xiv) Causing damage, whether willful or due to irresponsible action or damage due to 
negligence or carelessness to any property of the Institute or within the Institute or 
any instigation or abetment thereof. 
(xv) Organizing, holding, attending or taking part in any meeting without the prior 
sanction of the Registrar. 
(xvi) Disclosing to any unauthorized person any information in regard to the processes or 
any interests of the Institute which may come into the possession of a student. 
(xvii) Gambling within the Institute. 
(xviii) Smoking within the Institute. 
(xix) Possession or consumption of alcohol or narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances 
within the Institute or during travel authorized by the Institute. 
(xx) Failure to observe duly notified safety instructions or normal safety precautions or 
interference with any safety device or equipment installed within the Institute. 
Amended in 72nd Board of Management held on 6 April 2023 4 | P a g e
(xxi) Marking attendance of any student other than his own. 
(xxii) Declared and being carried in the registers of police as a bad character or conviction 
by any court of law for any criminal offence. 
(xxiii) Registration of any criminal case for any act directly or indirectly connected with the 
Institute. 
(xxiv) Doing private or personal work, within the Institute with or without tools or 
materials belonging to the Institute without the previous written permission of the 
Dean of the respective school. 
(xxv) Distributing or exhibiting within the Institute handbills, pamphlets, posters or 
causing to be displayed by means of signs or writing or other visible representations 
any matter without the previous written sanction of the Dean of the respective 
school. 
(xxvi) Making false, vicious and malicious statements in public or otherwise against the 
Institute or any student or any member or employee of the Institute. 
(xxvii) Willful falsification, defacement or destruction of any records of the Institute, 
whether maintained by himself or by any student or employee of the Institute. 
(xxviii) Knowingly making false or misleading statement or misrepresentation. 
(xxix) Possession of any weapon in the Institute. 
(xxx) Failure to report damage or defects noticed in machinery, equipment and processes. 
(xxxi) Refusal to submit for medical examination when required to do so by the Registrar. 
(xxxii) Applying for leave or seeking ratification of absence for reasons found to be false. 
(xxxiii) Running of chit funds or other schemes for raising loans within the establishment. 
(xxxiv) Refusal or failure to wear uniforms/work dress within the Institute premises. 
(xxxv) Shouting any slogan within the Institute whether alone or in combination with 
others without express permission in writing of the Registrar. 
(xxxvi) Spitting in the Institute. 
(xxxvii)Refusal to wear or show the identity card. 
(xxxviii) Willful or deliberate wasting of any food or snacks or beverages supplied by the 
Institute canteen or any eatery within the premises. 
(xxxix) Threatening any student / employee alone or in combination with others or through 
any outsider. 
(xl) Willful or deliberate misuse of any amenity provided by the Institute. 
(xli) Gaining admission by impersonation or by production of false identity card or fake 
certificates. 
Amended in 72nd Board of Management held on 6 April 2023 5 | P a g e
(xlii) Any conduct that is likely to endanger the life or safety of any student or employee 
of the Institute. 
(xliii) Habitual overstaying sanctioned leave without sufficient grounds or satisfactory 
explanation or leaving the premises when leave is refused. 
(xliv) Refusal to receive any written order or other lawful or proper communications 
served in accordance with these Rules. 
(xlv) Making malicious statements against the Institute or its Officers either verbal, 
printed materials, electronic means or online internet / intranet facilities. 
(xlvi) Sexual harassment. 
(xlvii) Causing any disruptive activity within the Institute in any manner whatsoever. 
(xlviii) Being a member of any outfit banned by the Government of India or extending any 
kind of support to such banned outfit. 
(xlix) Unauthorized possession, carrying or use of any weapon, ammunition, explosives, or 
potential weapons, fireworks. 
(l) Unauthorized possession or use of harmful chemicals and banned drugs. 
(li) Parking a vehicle in a no parking zone or in area earmarked for parking other type of 
vehicles. 
(lii) Rash driving on the campus that is likely to cause inconvenience to others. 
(liii) Not disclosing a pre-existing health condition, either physical or psychological, to 
the Medical Officer which may cause hindrance to the academic progress. 
(liv) Theft or unauthorized access of any academic work. 
(lv) Engaging in disorderly, lewd, or indecent conduct, including, but not limited to, 
creating unreasonable noise; pushing and shoving; inciting or participating in a riot 
or group disruption at the Institute, including and not limited to sloganeering, 
throwing stones or such other articles that is likely to cause injury or endangering 
safety of others. 
(lvi) Interacting, on behalf of the Institute, with media representatives or invite media 
persons on to the campus without written permission of the Registrar. 
(lvii) Unauthorised recording of audio or video lectures in class rooms or actions of other 
students, faculty, or staff without prior written permission. 
(lviii) Providing audio and video clippings of any activity on the campus to media without 
prior written permission. 
Amended in 72nd Board of Management held on 6 April 2023 6 | P a g e
(lix) Posting derogatory comments about other individuals of the Institute on the social 
media or indulging in any such related activities having ramifications on the 
reputation of the Institute. 
(lx) Causing hindrance or interfering or intruding in privacy of any individual within the 
Institute. 
(lxi) Passing any disparaging remarks hurting sentiments of others in any manner. 
(lxii) Using scripts and other specifically designed software programs to break or hack 
into Institute’s system or networks with or without malicious intent, whether to steal 
/ manipulate data or spread malware. 
(lxiii) Bringing / Allowing any Day Scholar / Day Boarder / Non-VITian inside the 
hostel. 
(lxiv) Causing any physical / mental harassment towards fellow students including ragging, 
quarrelling, using abusive language and violent behavior. 
(lxv) Fighting / Slandering / Quarrelling resulting in Minor or Major Injury. 
(lxvi) Indulging in any form of Forgery of any document. 
(lxvii) Indulging in any form of Multilevel Marketing with the students or employees within 
the Institute. 
(lxviii) Not reporting to Hostel within the time prescribed. 
(lxix) Claiming the work done by other as their own, claiming academic rewards for 
activities that are not relevant / done during previous academic periods, making 
false academic claims. 
(lxx) Carrying Mobile Phone or any other Electronic device in the Examination Halls, 
including and not limited to handing over such phones / devices to invigilators for 
safe custody. 
(lxxi) Markings of any kind found during Examinations in code Books or standard tables 
in physical or electronic modes, including and not limited to having chits/scribblings 
on any part of the body. 
(lxxii) Entering or attempting to enter examination hall 15 minutes after scheduled start 
time. 
(lxxiii) Exchange of Calculators, Stationaries, Code Books, etc., in the examination hall. 
(lxxiv) Writing anything in the question paper other than answers / workings except for the 
purpose of examination. 
(lxxv) Carrying answer booklets without submitting to the invigilators or unused one, from 
the examination hall. 
Amended in 72nd Board of Management held on 6 April 2023 7 | P a g e
(lxxvi) indulge in any disrespectful activities such as shouting / creating a scene in the 
examination hall. 
(lxxvii) Misuse of Identity Card of the Institute in any form or manner. 
(lxxviii) Smoking within the institute or possession of tobacco in any form or manner or ecigarettes. 
(lxxix) Gaining entry, into women hostel by male students and vice versa 
(lxxx) Entering unauthorised hostels. 
(lxxxi) Unauthorised use of any electrical gadgets in the hostel rooms. 
(lxxxii) Refusal to mark attendance at designated time in hostel or other entry points. 
(lxxxiii) Indulging in any act unbecoming of a student of this Institute. 